documentation/navigating-the-github.md, before:

# Navigating the UIUC Helium Recovery Organziation GitHub

## Table of Contents

- [GitHub Repository Introduction](#github-repository-introduction)
    - [.github](#github)
    - [RPis](#rpis)
    - [medusa](#medusa)
- [Project Management](#project-management)
    - [Our GitHub Project](#our-github-project)
    - [Issue Workflow](#issue-workflow)

## GitHub Repository Introduction
There are three Git repositories hosted on GitHub under the perview of the UIUC Helium Recovery Organization. They are:

### .github

- **Quick Summary**: This is a special repo that GitHub uses to automatically create a README file for the organization. 
- The current org README is located [here](github.com/UIUC-Helium-Recovery/profile/README.md) and is displayed as the `Helium Recovery Handbook` on the org's homepage.
- Also inside this repo is documentation written in markdown (e.g., `navigating-the-github.md`). It's easier to write quick documentation in markdown than on the box, especially if you want to include code blocks.

### RPis

- **Quick Summary**: This repo is used to backup and help with Git workflows for the main analysis Python and Shell files on the Raspberry Pis.
- **Branches**: RPis is split into two primary branches for development:
    - `loomis434`: the 'main', default branch, which is connected to and backs up code in the `/home/pi/medusa/` folder on Sloan's Pi.
    - `dev`: the child of `loomis434` that's connected to the `/home/pi/medusa/` folder on John's Pi. We test and review all code to be deployed to Sloan's Pi (our designated main analysis Pi) using this branch
    - `"feature"` branches:
        When we're working on new features to add to `loomis434`, we branch off of it and create a new feature branch to later be merged with `dev` and then, when we're sure our code works, with `loomis434`
### medusa

 - **Quick Summary**: his repo is used to backup and help with Git workflows for the [helium recovery website](heliumrecovery.web.illinois.edu).
 - **Branches**: medusa is split into two primary branches for development:
     - `cPanel`: the 'main', default branch, which is connected to and backs up code in the `/public_html/` folder on cPanel.
     - `dev`: the child of `cPanel`. This performs the same function as the `dev` branch in `RPis` but for the website's development.
     - `"feature"` branches:
        - Feature branches are used the same way as in `RPis`, replacing `loomis434` with `cPanel`.

## Project Management

### Our GitHub Project

In addition to our repos, we have an associated project called the `Helium Recovery Project` to help us communicate with each other over GitHub for code reviews on issues, pull-requests, and other project management duties.

### Issue Workflow
Each time there's a bug in our code, need for documentation, new feature, ... , etc., we can create a new issue under the `issues` tab in the `RPis` or `medusa` repos. Make sure to: 

- classify the issue correctly (e.g., as a bug, documentation, enhancement, ... , etc.), 
- assign someone (such as yourself) to the issue, 
- link the issue with with the `Helium Recovery Project`,
- and, **most importantly**, create a new branch off the repo's main branch for the issue (this is done after issue creation). This is so that you don't accidentally edit the dev/main branches unintendedly or mess with someone else's code.

When you've sent a pull request, everyone's reviewed and approved of your changes, and you've merged your feature branch to the dev branch and then the main branch, be sure to close the issue.

Commit message:

Made small tweak to using git and added an author part to 3 docs

documentation/navigating-the-github.md, after:

# Navigating the UIUC Helium Recovery Organziation GitHub

- **Author**: Luke Marren
- **Recent Updates**:
  - Date: 6-2-25
  - Maintainer(s): Luke Marren

## Table of Contents

- [GitHub Repository Introduction](#github-repository-introduction)
    - [.github](#github)
    - [RPis](#rpis)
    - [medusa](#medusa)
- [Project Management](#project-management)
    - [Our GitHub Project](#our-github-project)
    - [Issue Workflow](#issue-workflow)

## GitHub Repository Introduction
There are three Git repositories hosted on GitHub under the perview of the UIUC Helium Recovery Organization. They are:

### .github

- **Quick Summary**: This is a special repo that GitHub uses to automatically create a README file for the organization.
- The current org README is located [here](github.com/UIUC-Helium-Recovery/profile/README.md) and is displayed as the `Helium Recovery Handbook` on the org's homepage.
- Also inside this repo is documentation written in markdown (e.g., `navigating-the-github.md`). It's easier to write quick documentation in markdown than on the box, especially if you want to include code blocks.

### RPis

- **Quick Summary**: This repo is used to backup and help with Git workflows for the main analysis Python and Shell files on the Raspberry Pis.
- **Branches**: RPis is split into two primary branches for development:
    - `loomis434`: the 'main', default branch, which is connected to and backs up code in the `/home/pi/medusa/` folder on Sloan's Pi.
    - `dev`: the child of `loomis434` that's connected to the `/home/pi/medusa/` folder on John's Pi. We test and review all code to be deployed to Sloan's Pi (our designated main analysis Pi) using this branch
    - `"feature"` branches:
        When we're working on new features to add to `loomis434`, we branch off of it and create a new feature branch to later be merged with `dev` and then, when we're sure our code works, with `loomis434`
### medusa

 - **Quick Summary**: his repo is used to backup and help with Git workflows for the [helium recovery website](heliumrecovery.web.illinois.edu).
 - **Branches**: medusa is split into two primary branches for development:
     - `cPanel`: the 'main', default branch, which is connected to and backs up code in the `/public_html/` folder on cPanel.
     - `dev`: the child of `cPanel`. This performs the same function as the `dev` branch in `RPis` but for the website's development.
     - `"feature"` branches:
        - Feature branches are used the same way as in `RPis`, replacing `loomis434` with `cPanel`.

## Project Management

### Our GitHub Project

In addition to our repos, we have an associated project called the `Helium Recovery Project` to help us communicate with each other over GitHub for code reviews on issues, pull-requests, and other project management duties.

### Issue Workflow
Each time there's a bug in our code, need for documentation, new feature, ... , etc., we can create a new issue under the `issues` tab in the `RPis` or `medusa` repos. Make sure to:

- classify the issue correctly (e.g., as a bug, documentation, enhancement, ... , etc.),
- assign someone (such as yourself) to the issue,
- link the issue with with the `Helium Recovery Project`,
- and, **most importantly**, create a new branch off the repo's main branch for the issue (this is done after issue creation). This is so that you don't accidentally edit the dev/main branches unintendedly or mess with someone else's code.

When you've sent a pull request, everyone's reviewed and approved of your changes, and you've merged your feature branch to the dev branch and then the main branch, be sure to close the issue.
